# Corpus-Intro
My corpus consists of songs that Spotify categorizes into indie music. There is an ongoing debate on whether indie music can be considered a genre. Indie is short for “independent” and refers to music released by an artist independently rather than with a record label. Some bands that are considered to be indie, such as Arcade Fire, however, work with a record label. This begs the question: what makes indie music indie? Some argue that indie music has a specific sound, but what are its defining characteristics that allows Spotify to create “Indie” playlists? I hope to investigate this question with my corpus containing songs from three different indie sub-genre playlists created by Spotify: “Indie Rock Mix,” “Indie Pop Mix,” and “Indie Folk Mix.” Comparing songs from these different sub-genres will clarify what characteristics of a song Spotify considers to be indie. The main limitation of my investigation is that the songs in the playlists are recommended by Spotify for my specific account. Hence, it may not reflect the most popular indie songs nor be representative of indie music as a whole. “The Less I Know the Better” by Tame Impala is a typical indie song in my corpus, because it cannot be tied to another genre. Two atypical songs are “Sunflower” by Harry Styles and “Work Song” by Hozier, because neither of these artists are considered to be indie artists. These songs will be good to analyze since they may have the characteristics of a typical indie song, but they are made by non-indie artists.


# Differences in Energy Distribution Between Indie Subgenres
This graph shows how the three Indie Subgenres, Indie Rock, Indie Pop, and Indie Folk, differ from each other. Spotify's "Indie Rock" playlist has songs with the most energy, and the "Indie Folk" playlist has the least energy, while the "Indie Pop" playlist has the most wide distribution, with songs that are not very energetic and songs that are extremely energetic. The graph shows a clear distinction between the three subgenres regarding Spotify's audio feature of energy.
